# gRPC-REST

This project implements sensor monitoring and information exchange. Sensors communicate using grpc framework. Each sensor receives sensor reading data from neighbor. Neighbor to a sensor is determined at the startup using minimum distance criteria. After receiving data from sensor, each sensort calibrates its own current reading and sends it to REST server.

Messages class used for inter-sensor communication is generated using .proto file. If you change anything in that .proto file, project has to be rebuilt with "gradlew build" and refreshed so that change is seen. Sensors have to be started each on its own grpc server port.

After startup, sensor is firstly registered to REST server with its location coordinates and grpc server port. In the second step grpc server of a sensor is started in a thread which last until the end of a program. In the second thread sensor works as a grpc client and as a REST client. In endless loop of a second thread here is what happens: 1) Sensor reading is read from the .csv file, 2) That current sensor reading is stored in a Service class which is used by grpc server side of that sensor in case neighbor sensor reaches for their current reading to calibrate their own. 3) Now sensor checks if it has a neighbor already, if not it tries to retrieve its neighbor's grpc server port. Once the neighbor is obtained it is never changed. 4) If sensor successfully found its neighbor it starts grpc client and sends grpc request to receive neighbor's current reading. Request content itself is not important so no body message is defined. If successfull reading is calibrated with its neighbor's. 5) Final calibtated reading is sent to REST server. Each sensor after losing its neighbor must continue to work without it. Must throw an exception but continue to read readings and send it to server.

